So, here is yet another operator which is
actually a 2 character 1 command space 2>
space file1. 2> is an operator in which you
should not insert another space between them.
And what this operator does is to redirect
the standard error to the file1.
The standard output would be having its default
behavior namely sending it to the screen the
standard in will have its default behavior
by reading it from the keyboard.
And therefore the only one file pointer has
been redirected which is basically the standard
err to the file1.
Now why is it useful?
We will demonstrate the use of this particular
command in a moment again the same warning
applies that is if the file1 does not exist
then it will be created.
So, you should watch out, what is the name
of the file, which directory it is going to
be created, whether you have permission for
that, whether there is any other useful file
already by that name which you do not want
to overwrite and so on.
So, if you look at this command ls and the
$HOME you will see that the list of files
and folders in the home folder are being displayed
on the screen and you can give multiple options
to the ls command.
So, I would say ls $HOME and then let us say
/blah.
So, what happens is that the directory $HOME
has content and that is being displayed on
the screen.
But the directory /blah doesnt exist and therefore
there is an error message on the screen.
Now both error message as well as the output
have come onto the screen and our objective
of using 2 greater than operator is to redirect
the output onto the screen but the error onto
a file.
So, we will do that now.
So, I use up key to retrieve the command back
for editing and I press 2> and here I need
to give a file name where the error will be
placed and I would call that as error.txt
Now if you see the screen output is very clean
because it doesnt have any error message and
there is a file called error.txt that has
been created and you can actually look at
its content.
So, it has 53 bytes and cat error.txt would
actually show you the error that was displayed
when it was trying to run the command ls on
the directory called /blah which did not exist.
Now what is the use of this 2> operator?
It is 2 purposes.
One is to keep the output on the screen clean
so that the error messages are not being displayed
for whatever reason.
Another way is actually to send those error
messages to a file so that you want to inspect
that file and understand what errors have
come up that you want to debug at a later
point of time.
You can combine both > as well as 2> symbols
so that the standard out is redirected to
a file and the standard error is redirected
to another file.
So, you could actually try this out so that
the output is in one file and the errors are
all in another file.
And this is a very useful feature because
the error file will be requiring our attention
to watch out if there was any problem with
our script whereas the output file is something
that we may want to keep for our log.
Naturally the warning about the file1 and
file2 being created afresh will stay, that
is the directory should have the write permissions
for us and if there are any files by those
names, they will be overwritten and therefore
we have to watch out what names we are giving
for those files.
So, now we will try to do this redirection
as described just a moment back.
So, we have a ls $HOME and /blah and then
we write > let us say output.txt 2> error.txt.
Now if I press enter what do you expect to
come onto the screen?
Both the standard output and standard error
have been redirected, you do not expect anything
to be shown on the screen and that is exactly
what happens.
And here is again another application for
you to imagine that if you do not want any
output on the screen and the script has to
do its job silently by writing stuff onto
files rather than onto the screen, and this
is one way by which you can achieve that.
Now let us look at the 2 files that have been
created.
So, the error file has been created, 53 bytes,
and the output file has also been created
126 bytes.
So, what are the contents?
So, the error file naturally has the content
which is expected because /blah doesnt exist
there is an error message for that and the
output file will have the list of files and
directories in the current folder of dollar
home which is the home directory.
So, that is also as expected.
So, as you can see we can actually combine
both of these in a very useful manner.
So, what happens is when you try to look at
the ls output in a recursive manner usually
there will be some errors on the screen.
If there are any directories which you are
not supposed to enter because they belong
to the system.
Now there are such directors available in
/etc folder.
So, let us try that out.
So, ls -R /etc.
-R is to recursively traverse that particularly
directory and just list those files onto the
screen.
So, when you type this what happens is that
it is running, okay, and we can look at the
contents of the folder /etc in a recursive
manner and whatever are the directories and
their listing we can put that in the file
called output.txt and if there are any error
messages because we are not supposed to enter
some of the directories then that would be
made available in the text file error.txt.
So, when I enter here I should not see anything
on the screen as expected, and let us look
at the content of these 2 files.
So, you can see that the output file has 54950
bytes and the error file has 327 bytes.
As you can see that the 2 files have been
overwritten from our previous command.
So, we have to always watch out that the > symbol
and 2> symbol will always override the files
if they are already existing in the current
folder.
Now let us inspect the content.
So, I would use the less command to inspect
the content of output and you can see that
the files in the etc folder are being displayed
here and for every directory it would actually
list the name of the directory, put a colon,
and then the files that are in that particular
folder are listed.
And it would inspect every folder recursively
and this is a very nice way by which we can
actually look at what all the files that are
there in the particular directory, in a recursive
manner.
But in the process of doing that there are
some directory which you are not supposed
to enter, and so we got some errors and let
us look at that it says that there are some
directories which are not supposed to be entered
by us and therefore we got permission denied
errors and those errors are captured in the
error.txt.
We can use the < symbol or the left arrow
bracket to indicate that the standard input
has to be redirected.
So, any command that was expecting the input
from the keyboard could actually take the
input also from a file if we use this operator
and if we can try that out with some commands
that we have just been familiarized such as
cat.
So, let us try that out.
So, we have some we have some files here.
So, error.txt is one file that we can try
out.
So, when we type a cat error text cat error.txt
then it should just display the contents of
the file.
Now we can actually say cat less than error.txt
and what would happen is that it would read
the content from error.txt in display.
So, the behaviour is exactly the same.
Now we can test less than symbol by using
the wc command to count the number of words,
lines etcetera.
So, we have already seen that in the wc command
is familiar to us.
So, normally the wc command is run on a file.
So, we have seen that we were running it on
etc profile and there are 27 lines of 97 words
and 581 characters in that particular file
and if you were to run it on the error.txt
which was created just now.
So, it has 5 lines 35 words and 327 characters
and look at the contents and you could actually
make out that these are the 5 lines.
Now what happens when we type like this wc
and then less than.
So, if you type like this wc less than error
the text.txt, it would mean that the content
has to be read from the file and that would
be the same behaviour as what you have given
on the command line.
Here is a very interesting combination of
the operators.
So, here you can see that the greater than
operator is telling that the output from the
command is being redirected to the file1 and
the 2 greater than is indicating the standard
error and that is being redirected to the
first stream which is standard out.
So, what is happening that the standard out
also is going to the same file.
2 greater than indicates the standard error
and the ampersand and one indicate that it
should be redirected to the file pointer 1
which is standard out it means that the standard
error will also go to the same file, file1.
So, here is a very unique situation where
the output from the command as well as the
error from the command are both sent to the
same destination file which is file1.
The usual warning about the file1 being overwritten
and permissions to create that file should
be provided etcetera will apply.
Now let us look at the application of the
command that we have just now illustrated.
So, we have got the example here, so ls dollar
home slash blah.
So, we saw that this command would have 2
outputs one is the standard out which would
be the directory contents of the home folder
and the other output is to standard error
which is basically the error that the folder
slash blah is not available.
Now we would like to combine both of them
to a file.
Now what happens when we do like this?
So what happens is that the output alone is
sent to the file1 but the error is not sent
and that is coming onto the screen.
Now what happens when we do like this?
So, we have sent the output to the file1,
the errors also to the file1 but does file1
contain both?
So, let us look at that.
And you see that the file1 does not contain
both it contains only the output.
The reason is that the error actually has
come out first and it was written to the file1
which is then overwritten when the output
is being redirected to the file1.
So, if you want to have both the error as
well as the standard out to be redirected
to a file then you cannot actually use this
particular format because the file created
by the error redirection would be overwritten
by the output redirection.
So, for that what we need to do is to redirect
the error onto the out it would have no overwriting
happening.
So, a better way is to redirect the standard
error onto the standard out and then let this
standard out be redirected to a file.
And thereby there will be no loss of the content
that is being stored as file from both the
streams.
So, we will try that out now.
So, that is a command and as you expect nothing
should be on the screen because the error
as well as the output are both redirected
to the file1.
So, nothing is displayed on the screen and
let us look at the contents of the file1 and
you could see that the error messages as well
as the directory listing of the home folder
are both in the same file file1.
So, this is a very useful feature where output
from the command both the standard error as
well as the standard out are both redirected
to a file which you may want to look at later
on to debug if the command happens to be fairly
complex.
In this case it is a simple command but you
could actually have a shell script in the
place of the ls command and this kind of a
redirected could be very useful in debugging
what is happening to the script.
So, just to recap we redirecting the standard
error onto the standard out which is then
redirected to the file1 and therefore file1
would contain both the outputs from the 2
streams namely the standard out as well as
the standard error.
Now comes a very powerful operator called
the pipe where the output of the command 1
is sent to the command 2 as an input which
means what you are doing by this pipe is the
standard out is being mapped onto the standard
in of the command 2.
If command 2 was expecting any input from
the keyboard or from a file then it could
actually take it also from the output of the
command 1 and thereby you could actually combine
the 2 commands in order to process the output
of the first command as an input to the command
2.
Now this is a very very popular way of using
the commands because it allows us to combine
multiple commands for processing without writing
to a file intermediately.
Now we have not talked about the standard
error.
By default the standard error would actually
go to the screen and that is how we are actually
showing it in the graphic.
So, let us illustrate the use of pipe command.
So, let us say we would like to count the
number of files in the directory user bin.
One way is to redirect the output of ls command
onto a file and then count the number of lines
in that file.
So, we have redirected the output of the ls
command onto the file1 and we are now running
wc on file1 to count the number of lines and
we see that the number of lines is 2596.
Let us look at the file1 itself it contains
the list of files that are there in the directory
called user bin.
Now here what we have done is to write the
output to a file and then look at the number
of lines in that file.
This is not very efficient because we are
actually writing a file and then again reading
it.
So, we could actually do it in the memory
where the output of the ls command is mapped
as an input to the wc command.
So, that is exactly what the pipe does.
Now you see that the operation is much more
efficient and we are getting our answers straight
in one go and there is no file1 that is created.
So, this pipe command can be used to combine
multiple commands and these is one of the
most popular ways of combining commands on
the shell on the bash and very often complicated
commands involving several pipes symbols on
the single command line are very much possible.
Let us say I would like to look at the files
that are in the user bin folder but I would
like to scroll through them and I do not want
to write to a file.
So, I could also do that now here.
So, ls user bin and I can pipe it to the command
called less and you could see that it is now
available for us to scroll through up and
down and when we are done we can press q and
come out.
The list of commands in the user bin directory
are now not written to a file but are sent
to the less command by a mapping of the standard
output of the ls command to the standard in
of the less command.
Thereby the mapping is in the memory and therefore
it is very efficient.
Now, we can actually combine both the pipe
as well as the greater than symbol to combine
multiple commands as well as files as destinations
for the standard output.
So, here is again a very popular usage where
the command 1 is actually combined with the
command 2 using a pipe symbol which means
the standard output of this command 1 is mapped
over to the standard in of the command 2.
And the standard out of the command 2 is then
redirected to the file1 however the standard
error of both the commands is still shown
on the screen by default because we have not
done anything with those 2 file pointers and
now naturally the file1 has to be created
afresh because the greater than symbol would
actually mean that it has to be created afresh
and so if that file exists earlier then it
will be over written and so watch out for
that.
uh
We can try out an example to illustrate how
this can be done.
So, have a look at the following command that
we are going to do a demo.
So, let us say we would like to list the number
of commands that are there in the user bin
folder and write that output onto a file so
that we could actually use that file for some
other purpose.
So, if you were to do like this ls user bill
pipe wc -l that means that the number of files
in the user bin directory are being listed
and greater than and then file1.
So, what would happen is that file1 would
have the number stored which means that we
have done 2 actions here one action is the
standard output of ls is passed on at the
standard input for wc and the standard output
of wc is redirected to the file called file1.
The file1 has the content which is basically
the number of lines that has been counted
by wc which is the number of files in the
directory user bin.
There is a file in the slash dev directory
normally we do not go there to fiddle around
with those files because they belong to the
system and some of them are very sensitive.
So, we do not normally do anything with the
slash dev folder but there is one special
file there called dev null which is like a
black hole.
So, if you happen to write anything to that
particular file then that content is basically
disappeared from the system and it is actually
used as a sink.
So, sometimes when you have confidence that
the script is running well you do not want
to have any error from that script to be displayed
on the screen for the user then you can actually
redirected the standard error of the command
to dev null and therefore the errors will
actually get disappeared into the slash dev
slash null folder and thereby they will not
be seen on the screen and therefore the shell
can actually have every clean output on the
screen.
So, here is a typical usage.
So, you have got the command that is running
it is giving out 2 streams of uh uh text one
is the standard out which you may want to
redirect to a file but if there were any errors
then you do not want to keep them you do not
want to also show them on the screen.
So, you can actually send it off to dev null.
So, that it is disappearing and that the redirection
of standard error is already seen by us it
is 2 greater than and the file itself is a
special file where it actually destroys that
content and therefore the other messages are
not coming onto the screen which is the purpose
of this kind of a command.
Now to illustrate the combination of both
greater than and dev null we have got the
usual example of listing of the folders in
the home folder as well as in a directory
slash blah which does not exist therefore
it will give you errors.
So, here you see that the errors have come
onto the screen uh but also the contents of
the dollar home.
So, we would like to have only the contents
stored in a file called file1 but the errors
are coming onto the screen I do not want them.
So, what I do is I redirect the error to dev
null and you see that the screen is now very
clean because there is nothing on the screen
the output is only in the file called file1
which we can inspect by using the cat command.
And the errors have all disappeared into the
black hole called slash dev slash null.
We have done this exercise with respect to
the recursive listing of directories in slash
etc folder where we face some permission errors
to enter some directories.
So, again here we can do ls -R slash etc we
want to redirect the output listing to the
file called file1.
We would like to have the errors disappear,
we would like to have the errors disappear
to dev null.
And you see that the command has executed
in a very clean fashion typical of a Linux
command and uh you could look at the file1
contents it would contain the list of files
in the etc folder recursively and the errors
have all gone to dev null.
So, that is a very clean behaviour of this
command and this is a very typical usage of
the 2 symbols greater than as well as her
2 greater than.
So, here is yet another command which helps
us in organizing the file streams in a very
clever fashion the tee command what it does
is like the uh t shape what it does is that
it would actually split the standard output
into 2 streams one stream is redirected to
the file1 and another copy of the stream is
then sent on to the screen.
So, this is used in situations where you would
like to have a copy of the output stored in
a file but also sent to the screen.
So, which means that you could then further
do another processing by writing something
else after that tee command?
So, we can see how it is used by some illustration.
Let us test the tee command once here.
So, we look at the help for the tee command
what it says is that it would read the input
from the standard input and write it to both
standard output and any file that has been
specified okay and it is using plural.
So, it could actually write to multiple files
okay and because it is reading from the standard
input you could actually put the tee command
after a pipe.
So, that the output of one command is sent
as an input to the tee command which it would
actually put it on the screen and also write
into a file.
So, we will try that out using our favourite
command a simple command, ls dollar home and
pipe tee and then we write a file call file1.
So, you see that the contents of the file1
would have the same thing as what is on the
screen.
So, you can see that the output is the same
which means that the tee command has a placed
a copy output of ls command in the file called
file1 and it is also sent it off to the screen
for you to see.
What happens when we give 2 file names.
So, you could see that cat file1 cat file2.
So, it has written to both the files which
means that the tee command is useful in sending
multiple copies of the standard input whatever
input is coming in it would actually create
multiple copies one to the screen by default
and another one to the file1 another one to
file2 and so on.
Now what does it do to the standard error?
So, that is something again we can inspect.
So, here we are actually confident of raising
an error.
So, because slash blah does not exist.
So, when we run this command you see that
the error message from the slash blah is coming
onto the screen and the output is slightly
different here the name of the folder is given
with a colon that is typical whenever the
ls command has multiple folders being listed.
So, each of them will have a colon.
So, that the file listing below is for the
particular folder.
And the folder listing is here for the home
folder and we can inspect the contents of
file1 and file2.
So, cat file1 it has the listing of a home
folder and the cat file2 also has the listing
of the home folder and look at these files.
So, file1 and file2 have the the same amount
of data let us even compare the 2 files there
is a command called diff.
So, diff file1 file2 and there is no output
which means that both of them are identical
files.
So, let us look at the help for the diff command
it says the diff command does by comparison
of files line by line it is very useful to
understand.
So, what it does is the tee command has given
2 copies of the standard output on file1 and
file2 both are identical and the the same
content has also been put on the screen for
you to see.
Now you could also pass it on to another command
beyond that.
So, you could actually put a pipe after that
and put wc -l, so counting the number of lines
in the directory listing.
So, now you see that the error message has
come onto the screen the number of files in
the home folder are counted as 14 and 2 copies
of the ls command output are placed in the
file1 and file2 let us verify that.
So, you could see that file1 and file2 have
2 copies and when I run the wc -l on file1
as well as on file2 you see 14 lines because
that has been counted by wc but it is not
counting from these 2 files but actually from
the output of ls command which has been passed
onto the screen by the tee command.
So, you can see that the tee command helps
in keeping a copy of the output in a file
and also send it to another command that may
actually process it further.
Because it is sending it to the standard out
which can be redirected by the pipe symbol
to another command So, that way you can actually
combine multiple commands on the uh command
line by using multiple pipe symbols as well
as the tee command to keep copies of those
outputs intermediately.
Now we will suppress the uh standard error
message that has come here by using the 2
greater than symbol.
So, let us do that now here.
So, I should do it here because here is where
the error is raised.
So, I would send it to the dev null.
So, now you see that the number of lines has
been printed on the screen but there is no
error message on the screen that is pretty
neat.
And we also have 2 copies of the listing of
the uh home folder in file1 and file2 respectively.
So, this is a pretty neat way of combining
many, many things.
So, you can see that what we have done we
have given ah the redirection of the standard
error onto the black hole called dev null.
We have piped the, we have piped the output
to tee command which has copied the output
to the 2 files and then we have piped the
standard output onto the wc which has counted
the number of lines.
So, like that you can assemble multiple commands
to achieve a very complicated task.
So, now as you can see that we are able to
combine the operators as well as multiple
commands and file names to achieve fairly
complicated task.
Where we have one command creating an output
which is then passed on to another command
as an input which is then passed on to a file
to storage or to yet another command to do
some more processing like counting the number
of lines etcetera.
So, each of these commands can actually be
a bash script which is where you can start
imagining that you can actually create a very
complicated task to be achieved by the command
line as well as multiple commands being placed
in a script which we will be learning shortly.